# Change log #
### January 2024 update: ###
1. Bug fix to allow proper use of `Job Type` filter (e.g. full-time, contract, etc.)

### December 2023 updates: ###
**Major change**

The LinkedIn Easy Apply bot will soon be available as a Windows executable, so users will be
able to run the bot without setting up the Python environment and related hassles. As easy as
simply downloading and unzipping the app, configuring `config.yaml` for user-specific changes
and running. 

This required changes in the directory structure, summarized as follows:

1. Moved `main.py` and `linkedineasyapply` to `app` directory for packaging the exe file.
2. All other files in root folder.

Source code is still open-source for tech-savvy people who wish to run bot under the Python
environment.

**Routine changes**

Updates to `config.yaml`:
1. Added certification/licensing option in `config.yaml` as `True` or `False` (certain
professions require confirmation, e.g. CPAs, lawyers, engineers, etc.).

Updates to `linkedineasyapply.py`:
1. Improved prompts and messages generated by the bot.
2. Updated functionality to enable responses to `certification` and `licensing` questions.
3. Improved handling of demographics (gender, aboriginal, veteran, etc.)

Updates to `main.py`:
1. Cross-updated the above changes. 

### October 2023 updates: ###
Following changes have been made in `config.yaml` and `linkedineasyapply.py`:

1. Added `residentStatus:` in `config.yaml`
2. Added `Pronouns` in `config.yaml`
3. Improved exceptions handling in `linkedineasyapply.py` to avoid bot getting stuck in some applications.
4. Corresponding changes in `main.py`
5. Fixed 'company name not captured' in *csv (issue#30).
